---
layout: default
img: waterfall.jpg
category: Services
title: Welcome
description: |
---

Can river modifications and hydraulic engineering alleviate the effects of climate change?

If interdisciplinary knowledge including morphology and ecohydraulics is considered, the question can easily be answered with "yes". If concrete is considered being the only true solution, then the answer must be different.

Interdisciplinary approaches are more complex and require the consideration of dynamic coupling, which complicate research and application. We are fortunate to be aware of the challenges of interdisciplinary collaboration today. Much more importantly, technological progress and data science provide us with new methods. The proof of new technological concepts have been reported in almost countless scientific papers, but they are hardly used effectively<sup>[1](#entwistle18)</sup>. 
It is time to benefit from Unmanned Aerial Vehicles (or: drones), LiDAR, Numerics, and the Internet of Things within open-source collaboration.

This is why I share my achievements on GitHub:

 - [`pydroscape`](https://sschwindt.github.io/pydroscape/) is a Python3 package for river-data analysis with open-source dependencies only.
 - [`River Architect`](https://riverarchitect.github.io/) is a sophisticated river analyses and design tool for ecomorphologically sustainable riverscape modifications. Little drawback: It has a commercial dependency, even though the codes are open-sourced.
 - [`Open Science`](https://sschwindt.github.io/OpenScience/) contains raw data and algorithms used to produce the results published in my papers.



***
<sub><a name="entwistle18"></a>1 Entwistle, N.; Heritage, G. & Milan, D. Recent remote sensing applications for hydro and morphodynamic monitoring and modelling Earth Surface Processes and Landforms, 2018 , 43 , 2283-2291. doi: [10.1002/esp.4378](https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/abs/10.1002/esp.4378)</sub>
